- [Instructor] Within Spring Batch,
several out of the box transition elements,
allowed jobs to define steps,
that are conditionally executed based upon,
the previous steps exit status.
At a high level,
you can think of this as including an if statement,
in our batch job that allows us to choose,
between several paths the job may take.
To help us explore conditional flows,
we're going to add another step,
within our delivery jobs configuration.
This will bring our total number of steps to four.
So this step is going to allow us to store the package,
in the event that we cannot locate the customer's address.
So I'm just going to copy one of our other steps
and then I'm going to rename the method,
that will create our step being to the storePackageStep.
And then we'll need to navigate,
into our step builder configuration
and change this to the storePackageStep.
And then also inside of our tasks GLUT,
we'll want to adjust our console output
to indicate we're storing the package.
So we'll say storing the package,
while the customer address is located.
Okay, so we have this new step,
it's only going to be executed,
when we get lost finding the customer address.
So that sounds like conditional logic to me.
Let's now navigate to our job configuration
to include this conditional logic.
So, we know that we want to include,
this logic after the drive to address step.
So at that point in our job configuration,
we're going to use the on method
and we're going to specify the pattern failed.
So if the drive to address step,
has an exit status of failed,
then we would like the job execution
to transition to the StorePackageStep.
Okay, so now that we have configured the failed condition,
we need to specify what to do if it completes successfully.
So we're going to use the from method.
And we'll specify that from the drive to address step.
If we have any other exit status then failed.
And we specify that by using the asterisk pattern,
then we would like the execution of the job
to transition to the givePackageToCustomerStep.
Because, we found their address
and now we're giving them their item.
Because we now have that configuration in place,
we can take out this next transition.
And then we need to add the end method,
in order to complete our jobs configuration.
So we can go ahead and save that.
And let's just take a quick look at the job configuration.
So, here is our conditional,
where basically we're determining,
if we failed we execute the storePackageStep.
And if we did not fail, we give the package to the customer.
If you're having trouble reading the logic,
one helpful way to interpret it,
is to consider the from transition as an else if
and the on transition as an equal statement,
and to as a then statement.
So, here we will say,
else if the driveToAddressStep is equal
to anything other than failed,
then give the package to the customer.
It's just a helpful way to read this configuration.
Okay, now let's configure our job to fail.
I'm going to switch the GOT LOST boolean over to true.
And then I'm going to navigate over to the console,
where I will run our delivery job.
And the job will build and then once built,
it will kick off.
Okay, so here we can see that we got lost
and our job failed.
And then if we take a look at the logic,
you're going to see that we stored the package,
while the customer address is located.
Okay, so we were able
to execute our custom job logic for when we failed,
the drive to address step.
Now let's go and we'll flip the job over
to execute the successful condition.
And in this case, we want to give the package
to the customer.
So we'll set GOT LOST to false.
And now the other thing we'll need to do,
is clear out our job metadata
because we are running the same job instance over.
So a quick way to get past that,
is to just quickly drop all the tables.
Obviously, you do not want to do that,
within your production environment,
that would not be advisable.
So we can go ahead and drop our tables.
And then once all the tables are dropped,
and you can see there's a little bit of an order to it.
We're good to go ahead and run our new job.
So let's clear the console.
And then we're going to run the job again.
And this time we will execute our success condition.
Okay, so here we can see,
that we started delivering the shoes.
And then we successfully arrived at the address,
and then we gave the package to the customer.
Using the transition elements in Spring Batch,
we were able to build a conditional job,
that changed its flow dynamically depending,
upon the exit status of subsequent steps.
This is an important feature
of Spring Batch because it allows us
to construct complex jobs,
that can satisfy more complicated batch requirements.